docs/source/tutorials/part_4_specific_topics/06_notes_on_port_handling.rst, before:

Some notes on working with TCP ports
====================================

Working on many projects (or with many people on the same terminal server) can easily cause trouble when everyone tries
to use the same ports for a service.
As an example, the message broker nats runs on TCP-port 4222 per default. This works well when using only one broker on
the machine but will cause severe trouble when running the service multiple times for different projects.

Therefore a complex logic has been integrated in the configuration handling and creation of docker-compose files.


Automatic port selection
------------------------

Use the command :command:`fiot config --port-offset=0` to use random ports free at the moment of creating the config file for
the first time.

**Hint:** You may also use the :envvar:`FASTIOT_PORT_OFFSET` to set a system-wide default.

After starting the integration test deployment unit tests will use the freshly set ports right away.
If you configured your project as proposed in :ref:`label-setting-up-pycharm` this will also use these ports as those
are now stored in the deplomynet-specific directory below :file:`build/deployments`.

**Attention:** Because some local tools e.g. a database client might be configured with ports; it's not feasable to have
new random ports each time you run :command:`fiot config`. That's why the config cmd will try to import generated ports from
the built configuration. If you don't want this behavior, you can use the no-use-port-import option like this:
:command:`fiot config --port-offset=0 --no-use-port-import`.
This will generate completely new ports, unless your :file:`.env` in your :file:`deployments/my_deployment/` has
something statically configured.
Statically configured ports will always have precedence.
Use this with caution as this may cause trouble on other systems or the CI runner if any conflicts occur.

**Attention**: Even though there are 65336 ports (0..1024 only available to users with system privileges) it may happen,
that a port is in use when you start your deployment. In this case you have to rerun fiot config with the option
``-no-use-port-import``. If this happens often you might assign ports with specified ranges e.g. --port-offset=6000 and
have a different offset for each project and user.


Manual port selection
---------------------

If you use any environment variables in your :file:`.env` file inside your deployment configuration
you can simply fixate ports there, e.g.:

::

  FASTIOT_MONGO_DB_PORT=20334

will set the TCP port for a MongoDB to ``20334``.
See :ref:`deployment_yaml` for more details on handling deployments).

**Attention:** Use this with caution as this may cause trouble on other systems or the CI runner if any conflicts occur.

Ports within the docker networks
--------------------------------

Using the generated :file:`.env` file in the build directory, you will see the hostnames of e.g. the broker set to
``localhost``. This works well for debugging or running services locally.
But inside the Docker-network these services need to be addressed with their internal port and hostname (typically the
container name. To solve this issue, the env variables will be overwritten inside the :file:`docker_compose.yaml`
accordingly. Thus ``localhost:12345`` to access the broker on port 12345 will become ``nats:4222`` inside a running
docker container.

The framework will take care of creating correct :file:`docker-compose.yaml` files. So just be aware of these small
differences!

Commit message:

Adjusting port handling in config command => manually set ports in environment always have the highest priority

docs/source/tutorials/part_4_specific_topics/06_notes_on_port_handling.rst, after:

Some notes on working with TCP ports
====================================

Working on many projects (or with many people on the same terminal server) can easily cause trouble when everyone tries
to use the same ports for a service.
As an example, the message broker nats runs on TCP-port 4222 per default. This works well when using only one broker on
the machine but will cause severe trouble when running the service multiple times for different projects.

Therefore a complex logic has been integrated in the configuration handling and creation of docker-compose files.


Automatic port selection
------------------------

Use the command :command:`fiot config --port-offset=0` to use random ports free at the moment of creating the config file for
the first time.

**Hint:** You may also use the :envvar:`FASTIOT_PORT_OFFSET` to set a system-wide default.

After starting the integration test deployment unit tests will use the freshly set ports right away.
If you configured your project as proposed in :ref:`label-setting-up-pycharm` this will also use these ports as those
are now stored in the deplomynet-specific directory below :file:`build/deployments`.

**Attention:** Because some local tools e.g. a database client might be configured with ports; it's not feasable to have
new random ports each time you run :command:`fiot config`. That's why the config cmd will try to import generated ports from
the built configuration. If you don't want this behavior, you can use the no-use-port-import option like this:
:command:`fiot config --port-offset=0 --no-use-port-import`.
This will generate completely new ports, unless your :file:`.env` in your :file:`deployments/my_deployment/` has
something statically configured.
Statically configured ports will always have precedence.
Use this with caution as this may cause trouble on other systems or the CI runner if any conflicts occur.

**Attention**: Even though there are 65336 ports (0..1024 only available to users with system privileges) it may happen,
that a port is in use when you start your deployment. In this case you have to rerun fiot config with the option
``-no-use-port-import``. If this happens often you might assign ports with specified ranges e.g. --port-offset=6000 and
have a different offset for each project and user.


Manual port selection
---------------------

If you use any environment variables in your :file:`.env` file inside your deployment configuration
you can simply fixate ports there, e.g.:

::

  FASTIOT_MONGO_DB_PORT=20334

will set the TCP port for a MongoDB to ``20334``.
Setting a port in your environment has always the highest priority.
See :ref:`deployment_yaml` for more details on handling deployments).

**Attention:** Use this with caution as this may cause trouble on other systems or the CI runner if any conflicts occur.


Ports within the docker networks
--------------------------------

Using the generated :file:`.env` file in the build directory, you will see the hostnames of e.g. the broker set to
``localhost``. This works well for debugging or running services locally.
But inside the Docker-network these services need to be addressed with their internal port and hostname (typically the
container name. To solve this issue, the env variables will be overwritten inside the :file:`docker_compose.yaml`
accordingly. Thus ``localhost:12345`` to access the broker on port 12345 will become ``nats:4222`` inside a running
docker container.

The framework will take care of creating correct :file:`docker-compose.yaml` files. So just be aware of these small
differences!
